---
title: "Robust simultaneous UWB-anchor calibration and robot localization for emergency situations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Conference-papers
excerpt: 'This work proposed an FGO framework for simultaneously calibration and localization in robotics.'
date: 2025-08-05
venue: 'Vienna, Austria'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/11342538'
citation: 'X. Liu and M. Cao, "Robust simultaneous UWB-anchor calibration and robot localization for emergency situations," 2025 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC), Vienna, Austria, 2025, pp. 4691-4697, doi: 10.1109/SMC58881.2025.11342538.'
---
In this work, we propose a factor graph optimization (FGO) framework to simultaneously solve the calibration problem for Ultra-WideBand (UWB) anchors and the robot localization problem. Calibrating UWB anchors manually can be time-consuming and even impossible in emergencies or those situations without special calibration tools. Therefore, automatic estimation of the anchor positions becomes a necessity. The proposed method enables the creation of a soft sensor providing the position information of the anchors in a UWB network. This soft sensor requires only UWB and LiDAR measurements measured from a moving robot. The proposed FGO framework is suitable for the calibration of an extendable large UWB network. Moreover, the anchor calibration problem and robot localization problem can be solved simultaneously, which saves time for UWB network deployment. The proposed framework also helps to avoid artificial errors in the UWB-anchor position estimation and improves the accuracy and robustness of the robot-pose. The experimental results of the robot localization using LiDAR and a UWB network in a 3D environment are discussed, demonstrating the performance of the proposed method. More specifically, the anchor calibration problem with four anchors and the robot localization problem can be solved simultaneously and automatically within 30 seconds by the proposed framework. The supplementary video and codes can be accessed via [Link](https://github.com/LiuxhRobotAI/Simultaneous_calibration_localization).
